RFC #103: Wagtail 6.4* roadmap updates (#103)
wagtail/rfcs: text/103-roadmap-updates.md

# RFC 103: Public roadmap updates

- RFC: 103
- Author: Thibaud Colas
- Created: 2024-10-31
- Last Modified: 2024-10-31

## Abstract

This RFC provides a high-level overview of proposed [public roadmap](https://github.com/wagtail/roadmap) updates for future releases. This follows process changes introduced in [RFC 84](https://github.com/wagtail/rfcs/pull/84). See also RFCs [#86](086-roadmap-updates.md), [#88](088-roadmap-updates.md), [#91](091-roadmap-updates.md), [#98](098-roadmap-updates.md), [#101](101-roadmap-updates.md).

## Version number for the February 2025 release

With no specific discussion to date, we currently expect the February 2025 release will be version 6.4\*.

\* Provisional version number.

## Review of roadmap items for Wagtail 6.3 LTS (November 2024)

6 of 7 roadmap items will be marked as Done.

The following Wagtail 6.3 roadmap items will be marked as Done:

- [Enhanced contrast admin themes](https://github.com/wagtail/roadmap/issues/76)
- [Dashboard enhancements](https://github.com/wagtail/roadmap/issues/86)
- [Universal Design](https://github.com/wagtail/roadmap/issues/88)

> The following Wagtail 6.3 roadmap items will be marked as Done and there will be a follow-up item in v6.3\*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following Wagtail 6.3 roadmap items will be marked as Done and there will be a follow-up item in v6.4\*:
```

- [Admin UI performance benchmark](https://github.com/wagtail/roadmap/issues/87)

> The following Wagtail 6.3 roadmap items will be marked as Done and there will be follow-up work outside of the formap roadmap in v6.3\*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following Wagtail 6.3 roadmap items will be marked as Done and there will be follow-up work outside of the formal roadmap in v6.4\*:
```

The following Wagtail 6.3 roadmap items will be moved to v6.5\*:

- None

## Proposed roadmap items for Wagtail 6.4\* (February 2025)

### [StreamField blocks previews](https://github.com/wagtail/roadmap/issues/84)

Existing item, as-is.

### [StreamField blocks drag'n'drop](https://github.com/wagtail/roadmap/issues/85)

Existing item, as-is.

### [Admin UI performance improvements](https://github.com/wagtail/roadmap/issues/80)

Existing item, as-is.

### [Auto-save support refactorings with Telepath #47](https://github.com/wagtail/roadmap/issues/47)

Existing item, as-is – scheduled for Wagtail 6.3\*, moving to Wagtail 6.4\*.

### Headless roadmap

We will do further planning towards improving headless support directly in Wagtail. This includes:

- Review-ready draft of [RFC 100: Enhancing headless support](https://github.com/wagtail/rfcs/pull/100).
- RFC 100 review: approved or rejected.
- Creation of the 5-10 tracking issues needed to implement the RFC.
  - For example feature requests for a headless userbar, headless accessibility checks.
- Completion of [moving headless docs to the developer documentation](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/pull/12039)

> - TBC: creation of a headless bakerydemo.

Author: I’ve started a prototype here: https://github.com/thibaudcolas/bakerydemo-nextjs

I’d like to finish RFC 100 and then probably suggest we make it more official. Not something we need to commit to supporting forever, but certainly something handy to have as a go-to option when we need it.

## Proposed roadmap items for Wagtail v6.5\* (May 2025)

### [Admin interface accessibility improvements #71](https://github.com/wagtail/roadmap/issues/71)

Existing item – moving from Wagtail 6.4\* to 6.5\* so there is more time to earmark more specific improvements / find a feature sponsor.

### [Sustainability improvements #72](https://github.com/wagtail/roadmap/issues/72)

Existing item – moving from Wagtail 6.4\* to 6.5\* so there is more time to earmark more specific improvements / find a feature sponsor.

## Proposed roadmap items for "Future" releases

> ### Content Security Policy

Author: I’m not sure we’re ready yet to commit to this in any one release but it felt worth highlighting in the "Future" bucket at least.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good.

Author: While I have you here – this is amazing! 👉️ 👉️👉️ [Wagtail Stimulus Adoption Schedule (2022-25) 🎛️](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LdrXlj8OeCWy3B_moYZ-ynhfZZtFVHPahG9GFoT-XBs/edit) thank you for setting it up and keeping it updated ☺️
